In an online educational environment,
you're probably going to do
more reading than listening.
You may do some of your reading in printed
form,
say, an assigned novel or textbook,
but some of it might also be online
in the form of a webpage.
Reading online isn't the same
as reading in print,
so you should practice some strategies that
will
improve your online reading comprehension
and speed.
And some of the tactics
you learn about here
will help you with any kind
of reading you might do,
not just the stuff that's online.
After completing this module, you'll:
understand some of the differences between
reading print versus reading online;
learn strategies for staying
focused when reading online; and
discover ways to maximize your
reading speed and comprehension.
So what do we mean when we say that
reading print is different from reading online?
First, when you read something
&mdash;let's say, a book&mdash;
that's been printed by a
reputable publishing house,
you can assume that
the work is authoritative.
The author had to be vetted by a
publishing house and multiple editors, right?
But when you read something online, it
might have been written or posted by anybody.
This means that you have to seriously evaluate
the authority of the information you're reading.
Pay attention to who was writing
what you're reading.
Can you identify the author?
What are his or her credentials?
Second, in the print world, texts may include
pictures, graphics, or other visual elements
to supplement the author's writing.
But in the digital realm,
this supplementary material
might also include hyperlinks,
audio, and video as well.
This will fundamentally change
the reading experience for you
because online reading can be interactive
in a way that a print book can't.
An online environment allows you
to work and play with content
rather than passively absorbing it.
Finally, when you read in print,
you generally read sequentially,
from the first word to the last.
Maybe you'll flip to an index
or refer to a footnote,
but otherwise the way you read is
fairly consistent and straightforward.
Online, however, you can be led quickly
into an entirely new area of reading
by clicking on links or related content.
Have you ever been studying for class
and fall down a Wikipedia rabbit hole
while looking for unfamiliar terms?
ou might have started by investigating
the French Revolution,
but half an hour later you find yourself
reading about the experimental jazz scene
in 1970s New York.
You can't really do that with a book.
Now that you've heard about how
reading online differs from reading print,
you should know that this has
some really practical consequences
for reading comprehension&mdash;
how to understand and apply what you're reading.
Improving your online reading comprehension
will save you time and frustration
when you work on your assignments.
You'll be able to understand
your course subject matter better,
and your performance on your
quizzes and exams will improve.
Click on these three bubbles
to find out more
about the "why, what, and how"
of reading comprehension.
"Why am I being asked to read this passage?"
In other words, what are the instructions
my professor has given me?
"What am I supposed to get out of this passage?"
That is, what are the main concerns, questions,
and points of the text?
What do you need to remember for class?
"How will I remember what I just read?"
In most cases, this means
taking notes and defining key terms.
When you keep the "why, what and how"
of reading comprehension
in the forefront of your mind while reading,
your understanding of the material
will improve drastically.
It will only take a few minutes but it will
not only help you remember what you've read,
but also structure any notes
that you might want to take.
Let's put this information to use
with a short exercise.
Imagine that your instructor
has asked you to create
an argument either for or against the institution
of the death penalty in California.
She has pointed you to the website
www.deathpenalty.org to get started,
and this is what you see/find.
What terms or headlines stick out at you
so you can begin crafting your argument?
Click on the different
articles on this page
that seem like they might
help you get started.
Great!
This article will have a legal argument
from a federal judge–
a fantastic place to get talking points
for your own argument.
Hmm... this doesn't seem to be the best option
for your argument because it's
not directly related to your argument.
Let's skip or skim this one!
Yes!
This will give you historical precedent
you can point to in your argument.
Yes. A great rhetorical tactic is to use an
anecdote
from the life of a person with experience
with the issues you're talking about,
and this sounds like it might be very moving.
After all, it was convincing enough to
change this man's mind about the death penalty–
maybe it would sway
your audience as well.
Well done.
What's more convincing
than numbers,
especially when it comes to
the will of the American people?
Good instincts.
This article may give you a
great point of counterattack
if your argument is
against the death penalty.
This is another good testimony
from someone affected
by the death penalty,
but it's in the form of a blog post, so
there's probably better evidence out there.
Maybe come back to it if you
don't have everything you need.
This doesn't really pertain to your assignment,
so it doesn't seem like the best
possible choice. Keep looking!
Great job! Now that you
have had a little practice
using your reading comprehension skills,
let's wrap up with some questions
about online reading,
courtesy of students just like you.
I'm so used to reading printed
texts, and I actually prefer it
because I don't get distracted as easily
as I do when I'm online.
So how can I keep myself from getting
distracted when reading online?
When you read online, the hyperlinks,
images, audio, and video interactivity
embedded in the text can be
a really tempting distraction.
Try reading a passage straight through
at least once without clicking
on any of the hyperlinks or participating
in any of the interactive opportunities.
First, get a basic "feel" for the passage,
then read it with the interactive components
to augment your reading.
I once had a teacher
who didn't want us use our phones
to read our assigned texts.
Why did she care?
She's probably right.
It's best not to read your assignments
from the small screen of a smart phone.
It's too easy to miss words
and meanings
when the reading process
itself is challenging.
You've talked a lot today
about comprehension,
but I'd really like to know how
I can improve my online reading speed.
Got any tips?
So glad you asked!
Reading quickly and efficiently
will leave you more time to study,
and improve your performance
in your course.
To read more quickly
and efficiently online,
try most of all to avoid distractions
like ads, pop-ups, or hyperlinks
that will lead you away
from your assignment.
Another tactic you can try is to
scan the page before actually reading,
focusing on key words and phrases
rather than every single word.
This is the same technique
you just tried out
in the death penalty exercise
we went through.
It will not only help you
to read faster,
it'll also give you a sense
of the text's main ideas.
Bravo! You've now successfully completed
the Online Reading Strategies module!
Remember, most of what you do
in an online class
will be structured around reading.
Don't you feel ahead of the game now?